=head1 NAME

heawm - x11 window manager

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<heawm>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<heawm> is a dynamic tiling window manager for X attempting to provide
painless window management. Has multi-head and half-baked multi-user support.

B<heawm> comes with a single pixel gap between windows and no gap between
windows and the edge of the monitor. Windows have a name (C<_HEAWM_NAME>) and a
label (C<_HEAWM_LABEL>). Name is an arbitrary string that can only ever be
useful during search, while label is a single letter that is always shown at
the top right corner of a window. There are no directions between windows but
these labels are used to address them directly.

Windows can be grouped into unnamed tabs. A tab shows either the zoomed window,
if any, or its area is split between a single master window (optional) and a
slave area where the remaining windows are tiled in a grid.

Tabs can be grouped into unnamed sessions. When a session contains floating
windows only (in one more tabs) it is called a floating session.

Finally, Nth output shows nth tab of the first, focused session. Windows from
other sessions are hidden. However, floating sessions are always visible,
essentially providing sticky floating windows.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=head1 CONTROL

B<Mod> is hardcoded to be Mod4.

=head2 Normal mode

=over 4

=item B<Mod+Return>

Open C<$TERMINAL>.

=item B<Mod+a>..B<Mod+z>

Focus window.

=item B<Mod+!>

Focus urgent window.

=item B<Mod+/>

Open window search bar.

=item B<Mod+Tab>

Focus previously focused window.

=item B<Mod+#>

Focus previously focused tab.

=item B<Mod+[>, B<Mod+]>

Focus prev/next window in tab.

=item B<Mod+{>, B<Mod+}>

Focus prev/next tab in session.

=item B<Mod+(>, B<Mod+)>

Focus prev/next session.

=item B<Mod+.>

Zoom/unzoom focused window.

=item B<Mod+Space>

Move focused window to master position. If it is already in
master position, swap it with the previously focused window
and focus it. If previously focused window is in a
different tab, swap tabs instead and focus its last focused
window.

=item B<Mod+A>..B<Mod+Z>

Swap with focused window and focus.

=item B<Mod+Escape>

Enter command mode.

=item B<Mod++>, B<Mod+->

Shortcut for B<Mod+Escape +/->.

=item B<Mod+&>

Move window to new tab.

=item B<Mod+;>

Enter label mode.

=item B<Mod+,>

Edit window layout in C<$EDITOR> (opened with C<$TERMINAL>). Lines contain tab
separated values: window id, label (editable), name (editable), class, title.

Tabs are separated by a single, sessions by at least two blank lines. Lines can
be freely reordered and deleted, window layout will be changed accordingly.
Deleted windows are closed (not killed).

=item B<Mod+*>

Warp pointer to the center of the focused window.

=item B<Mod+PrimaryClick>

Focus window and start moving.

=item B<Mod+SecondaryClick>

Move nearest corner of focused window here.

=item B<Mod+WheelDown>, B<Mod+WheelUp>

Same as mode B<Mod+{>, B<Mod+}>.

=item B<Mod+Shift+WheelDown>, B<Mod+Shift+WheelUp>

Same as mode B<Mod+(>, B<Mod+)>.

=item other

Pass-through.

=back

=head2 Command mode

=over 4

=item B<1>..B<9>

Set I<N>.

=item I<N>B<h>, I<N>B<j>, I<N>B<k>, I<N>B<l>

Set place of master window. Master size is set to I<N>, if I<N> is present. If
not in master mode, I<N> defaults to 6.

=item B<+>, B<->

Increase/decrease master size.

=item I<N>B<s>

Set master size.

=item I<N>B<R>, I<N>B<r>, I<N>B<C>, I<N>B<c>, B<G>, B<g>

Set grid dimensions to fixed number of rows/columns or auto. Uppercase
variations exit master mode. I<N> defaults to 1.

=item B<M>, B<m>

Toggle monocle mode. Grid dimensions are ignored and only the last focused
window is shown.

=item B<q>

Close window.

=item B<Q>

Kill window.

=item B<i>

Enter insert mode.

=item B<F>

Sink all floating windows.

=item B<f>

Toggle window floating.

=item I<N>B<f>

Float window and move-resize it according to the position of digit I<N> in the
numeric keypad (1=bottom left).

=item other

Block.

=back

=head2 Label mode

=over 4

=item B<a>..B<z>

Set label of the focused window.

=item B<;>, B<Space>

Choose label automatically for the focused window.

=item other

Block.

=back

=head2 Insert mode

=over 4

=item B<Mod+Escape>

Enter normal mode.

=item other

Pass-through.

=back
